README.md, before:

Project1_user_centric_frontend_dev

The project was to design a frontend website for the 1960s Rock band The Monkees.  This website was created for current and to attract potential new fans of the band. The website showcases some of the bands back catalogue in audio and video form. The booking page of the website allows fans to book the band for various upcoming events. To allow fans to stay connected with the band the footer of each page contains links to all the bands major social media accounts.

*-UX-*

The process used when designing this website started from an idea given in the video on the “additional advice” [1] page in the code institute course recommending the use of websites [2] and [3] for design ideas. Using these websites as well as looking at other bands websites to see what works. I found [4] which is the basic design used for the header and footer on the website. The basic layout for the rest of the website is taken from [5], where the website pages consist of a static background image with a strollable box contain the content of that page. 
1.	https://courses.codeinstitute.net/courses/course-v1:codeinstitute+FE+2017_T3/courseware/c75714c9636b4cf59120d60acbec6ffd/f851a16813f14b3aae7bd1e6560443cd/?child=last
2.	https://www.awwwards.com/
3.	https://tympanus.net/codrops/
4.	https://www.newmusicusa.org/
5.	http://www.hueylewisandthenews.com/
Other website I looked at for design ideas
https://www.beyonce.com/
http://www.rollingstones.com/
http://theprodigy.com/
http://www.thebeatles.com/
https://www.w3schools.com/ (used as a reference for basic commands) 


*-page by page walkthrough of website features-*

Page 1 - Home page is the first page of the website. The page has an image of the band. Page Link https://project1-user-centric-frontend-dev-grantmcaleese.c9users.io/index.html
page 2 - Music Videos page contains the music video for the song daydream believer. Page Link https://project1-user-centric-frontend-dev-grantmcaleese.c9users.io/musicvideo.html
Page 3 - Songs page contains audio files for 4 of their songs. Page Link https://project1-user-centric-frontend-dev-grantmcaleese.c9users.io/songs.html
Page 4 - Band Members page providing a biography of each band member. Page Link https://project1-user-centric-frontend-dev-grantmcaleese.c9users.io/bandmembers.html
Page 5 - Booking page where you can book the band for events, weddings, bars, corporate events etc. By filling out this form you are taken to page 6. Page Link https://project1-user-centric-frontend-dev-grantmcaleese.c9users.io/booking.html
page 6 - Thank you page after booking The Monkees. Page Link https://project1-user-centric-frontend-dev-grantmcaleese.c9users.io/thankyoubookingpage.html

Potential future features.
1. A website forum allowing fans to discuss the band.
2. Sign in / profile page
3. Email subscribe list


*-Technologies used-*

•	Bootstrap ( https://getbootstrap.com/ )
o	Bootstrap was used to mobile-first design of the website.

•	Cdnjs ( https://cdnjs.com/libraries )
o	Cdnjs add the font awesome library for fonts and CSS framework.

•	Hover ( http://ianlunn.github.io/Hover/# )Hover ( http://ianlunn.github.io/Hover/# )
o	Hover was used to add hover effects to buttons,links etc

•	JQuery (https://jquery.com/ )
o	JQuery is used to provide DOM manipulation.


*-Code Testing-*

I’ve tested the code in chrome, Firefox, Microsoft edge browser and safari as well as the mobile versions of these browsers.
I used W3C for CSS https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/and HTML https://validator.w3.org/ to remove errors.
The Booking page has been tested and the booking form cannot be submitted if any of the fields have not been input correctly.


*-Code Deployment-*

•	Github 
o	https://github.com/GrantMCA93/Project-1-BandWebsite/commits/master

The hosting platform I chose to use was Github
one issue I discovered early into the product was that I unfortunately didn’t push my early commits to the right location, but I quickly realised and sorted the problem.


*-Credits-*

Content
•	Page 2 Music video page Description https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daydream_Believer
•	Page 3 Songs page Descriptions 
o	I’m A Believer - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I%27m_a_Believer
o	Daydream Believer - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daydream_Believer
o	(I’m Not Your) Steppin’ Stone - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/(I%27m_Not_Your)_Steppin%27_Stone
o	Last Train to Clarksville - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Last_Train_to_Clarksville
•	Page 4 Band Members bios
o	George Michael Dolenz Jr - https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0004880/bio
o	David Thomas Jones - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Davy_Jones_(musician)
o	Peter Tork - http://www.monkeesrule43.com/peterbio.html
o	Robert Michael Nesmith - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Nesmith

The code used for my booking form is a modified template from Bootstrap Forms https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/components/forms/" , the basic layout is taken from my mentors booking form "https://ckz8780.github.io/ci-ucd-milestone/booking.html"
The layout, text and background colors were altered from the bootstrap template -

*-Media-*

All Images audio and video media files taken from GitHub repo provided unless specified ( https://github.com/Code-Institute-Org/project-assets )
•	Page 1 Homepage (index.html) background image source 
o	https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/8f/The_Monkees_May_1967.jpg

•	Page 2 Music video page (musicvideo.html) file link 
o	https://github.com/Code-Institute-Org/project-assets/blob/master/stream-1/band-assets/video/
•	Page 3 Songs page (songs.html) file link
o	 https://github.com/Code-Institute-Org/project-assets/tree/master/stream-1/band-assets/audio

•	Page 4 Band Members Page (bandmembers.html) background image source
o	https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/e/ed/The_Monkees.jpg
•	Page 5 Booking Page (booking.html) and page 6 thank you page
o	(thankyoubookingpage.html) background image source https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/83/The_Monkees_March_1967.jpg


*-Acknowledgements-*

Mentor:- Chris Zielinski  ckz8780@gmail.com

Commit message:

post method removed from booking form read.me file code updated and comment explaining reason for that

README.md, after:

Project1_user_centric_frontend_dev

The project was to design a frontend website for the 1960s Rock band The Monkees.  This website was created for current and to attract potential new fans of the band. The website showcases some of the bands back catalogue in audio and video form. The booking page of the website allows fans to book the band for various upcoming events. To allow fans to stay connected with the band the footer of each page contains links to all the bands major social media accounts.

*-UX-*

The process used when designing this website started from an idea given in the video on the “additional advice” [1] page in the code institute course recommending the use of websites [2] and [3] for design ideas. Using these websites as well as looking at other bands websites to see what works. I found [4] which is the basic design used for the header and footer on the website. The basic layout for the rest of the website is taken from [5], where the website pages consist of a static background image with a strollable box contain the content of that page. 
1.	https://courses.codeinstitute.net/courses/course-v1:codeinstitute+FE+2017_T3/courseware/c75714c9636b4cf59120d60acbec6ffd/f851a16813f14b3aae7bd1e6560443cd/?child=last
2.	https://www.awwwards.com/
3.	https://tympanus.net/codrops/
4.	https://www.newmusicusa.org/
5.	http://www.hueylewisandthenews.com/
Other website I looked at for design ideas
https://www.beyonce.com/
http://www.rollingstones.com/
http://theprodigy.com/
http://www.thebeatles.com/
https://www.w3schools.com/ (used as a reference for basic commands) 


*-page by page walkthrough of website features-*

Page 1 - Home page is the first page of the website. The page has an image of the band. Page Link https://project1-user-centric-frontend-dev-grantmcaleese.c9users.io/index.html
page 2 - Music Videos page contains the music video for the song daydream believer. Page Link https://project1-user-centric-frontend-dev-grantmcaleese.c9users.io/musicvideo.html
Page 3 - Songs page contains audio files for 4 of their songs. Page Link https://project1-user-centric-frontend-dev-grantmcaleese.c9users.io/songs.html
Page 4 - Band Members page providing a biography of each band member. Page Link https://project1-user-centric-frontend-dev-grantmcaleese.c9users.io/bandmembers.html
Page 5 - Booking page where you can book the band for events, weddings, bars, corporate events etc. By filling out this form you are taken to page 6. Page Link https://project1-user-centric-frontend-dev-grantmcaleese.c9users.io/booking.html
page 6 - Thank you page after booking The Monkees. Page Link https://project1-user-centric-frontend-dev-grantmcaleese.c9users.io/thankyoubookingpage.html

Potential future features.
1. A website forum allowing fans to discuss the band.
2. Sign in / profile page
3. Email subscribe list


*-Technologies used-*

•	Bootstrap ( https://getbootstrap.com/ )
o	Bootstrap was used to mobile-first design of the website.

•	Cdnjs ( https://cdnjs.com/libraries )
o	Cdnjs add the font awesome library for fonts and CSS framework.

•	Hover ( http://ianlunn.github.io/Hover/# )Hover ( http://ianlunn.github.io/Hover/# )
o	Hover was used to add hover effects to buttons,links etc

•	JQuery (https://jquery.com/ )
o	JQuery is used to provide DOM manipulation.


*-Code Testing-*

I’ve tested the code in chrome, Firefox, Microsoft edge browser and safari as well as the mobile versions of these browsers.
I used W3C for CSS https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/and HTML https://validator.w3.org/ to remove errors.
The Booking page has been tested and the booking form cannot be submitted if any of the fields have not been input correctly.


*-Code Deployment-*

•	Github pages websit host location https://grantmca93.github.io/project1-user-centric-frontend-dev/index.html
o	Github commit location https://github.com/GrantMCA93/Project-1-BandWebsite/commits/master

The hosting platform I chose to use was Github pages
one issue I discovered early into the product was that I unfortunately didn’t push my early commits to the right location, but I quickly realised and sorted the problem.
A second issue is that Github pages doesn't support the post method so i removed it from my booking form.


*-Credits-*

Content
•	Page 2 Music video page Description https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daydream_Believer
•	Page 3 Songs page Descriptions 
o	I’m A Believer - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I%27m_a_Believer
o	Daydream Believer - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daydream_Believer
o	(I’m Not Your) Steppin’ Stone - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/(I%27m_Not_Your)_Steppin%27_Stone
o	Last Train to Clarksville - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Last_Train_to_Clarksville
•	Page 4 Band Members bios
o	George Michael Dolenz Jr - https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0004880/bio
o	David Thomas Jones - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Davy_Jones_(musician)
o	Peter Tork - http://www.monkeesrule43.com/peterbio.html
o	Robert Michael Nesmith - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Nesmith

The code used for my booking form is a modified template from Bootstrap Forms https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/components/forms/" , the basic layout is taken from my mentors booking form "https://ckz8780.github.io/ci-ucd-milestone/booking.html"
The layout, text and background colors were altered from the bootstrap template -

*-Media-*

All Images audio and video media files taken from GitHub repo provided unless specified ( https://github.com/Code-Institute-Org/project-assets )
•	Page 1 Homepage (index.html) background image source 
o	https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/8f/The_Monkees_May_1967.jpg

•	Page 2 Music video page (musicvideo.html) file link 
o	https://github.com/Code-Institute-Org/project-assets/blob/master/stream-1/band-assets/video/
•	Page 3 Songs page (songs.html) file link
o	 https://github.com/Code-Institute-Org/project-assets/tree/master/stream-1/band-assets/audio

•	Page 4 Band Members Page (bandmembers.html) background image source
o	https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/e/ed/The_Monkees.jpg
•	Page 5 Booking Page (booking.html) and page 6 thank you page
o	(thankyoubookingpage.html) background image source https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/83/The_Monkees_March_1967.jpg


*-Acknowledgements-*

Mentor:- Chris Zielinski  ckz8780@gmail.com
